README.md, before:

## About
The NodeMCU is an open-source firmware and development kit which allows us to use a low-cost ESP8266 WiFi MCU to provide “the best platform for IOT application development at the lowest cost” [NodeMCU homepage](https://www.nodemcu.com/index_en.html).  

ESPHome is the software and firmware flasher we’ll be using; it’s a “system to control your ESP8266/ESP32 by simple yet powerful configuration files and control them remotely through Home Automation systems” [ESPHome homepage](https://esphome.io).

## Upon Completion
By completing this project you will have a porg or other hacked 5v plush which can be invoked via web request over the Internet!

<div class="gif-container" style="text-align:center">
    <iframe src="https://giphy.com/embed/BpCYzidFkPgUzFV9cA" width="480" height="201" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe><p><a href="https://giphy.com/gifs/starwars-star-wars-the-last-jedi-BpCYzidFkPgUzFV9cA">via GIPHY</a></p>
</div>

# Minimum Project Scope

It's worth noting that all tasks will be directly beneficial to the GIX IoT Network project and not just the MakerFaire attendees and external makers!

## Emoji Guide
💯 = Must do to complete project  
💭 = Nice but can work without it  
⚠️ = Nice but could pose significant time suck and can work without it

## Time
* Arduino Development: 2 - 10 hrs depending on path taken
  * 💯Figuring out the issue for uploading code to NodeMCU by needing to change file (see the [repo](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-arduino))
    * 💯Documentation 
    * 💭Automation script Linux/Unix
      * ⚠️ Being able to do this on Windows in addition to Linux/Unix - developing a cross-platform Python script
* Azure Development: 2 - 10 hrs depending on path taken
    * 💯Documentation on process
    * 💭ARM template which is able to orchestrate creation of all resources 
      * Function App
      * Azure IoT Hub
      * IoT Device
      * 💭Key Vault + add documentation to add Key

* 💯Submission to MakerFaire: 2 hrs
  * 💯 writeup on make projects https://makeprojects.com/

* 💭Submisison to Instructbles Arduino contest 2 hrs:
  * https://www.instructables.com/contest/arduino2020/

* 💯 Shifts @ MakerFaire: 1 - 8 hrs
* 💭 Add this project to GIX's GitHub?: 1 hr

**ESTIMATED TOTAL (AVG time to complete everything): 17 hrs**

## Resources/Value Upon Completion
💯Arduino device code which can be configured for Wi-Fi in Arduino IDE and can be *easily* flashed by anyone (instructions or automated):
* 💯 Could be solely documentation
* ⚠️ Or it could use the Arduino IDE in conjunction with a python shell script (see the [Arduino CLI](https://github.com/arduino/arduino-cli) project).

💭Depoloyable ARM template on Azure which allows anyone to deploy the following resources:
* Function App
* Azure IoT Hub
* IoT Device

And let's not forget, another cool GIX project!
## TODO and Delegation
Each emoji represents one or two people:

☁️= Cloud Engineers (two people)  
🔎= Researcher (one person)  
🤖= Systems Engineers (two people)  
📜= Technical Writers (two people)  
👔= Presenters (one to four people)  
🧪= Testers (three people)

- [ ] ARM Template (three people) - Justin, Joey, Cody
  - [ ] 🔎Get high level resource templates for Function App, Azure IoT Hub, and IoT Device.
  - [ ] 🔎Learn Deployment Manager for ARM Templates  
  - [ ] ☁️[Learn Basic Structure of ARM template](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/overview)
  - [ ] ☁️Sign up for Azure
  - [ ] ☁️[Create a sample ARM template](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/template-tutorial-create-first-template?tabs=azure-powershell)
  - [ ] ☁️[Azure IoT Hub ARM template sample](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/templates/?term=iothub)

- [ ] Arduino Flashing (two people) - CJ, Cody
  - [ ] 🤖Figure out uploading the code to Arduino on multiple platforms (Windows/Linux/Unix) and create documentation including entering Wi-Fi SSID + password and adding code config 
  - [ ] 🤖Write a python script to automate changing the files for *Linux/Unix*
  - [ ] 🤖EXTRA: Automate the process on Windows as well and use the [Arduino CLI](https://github.com/arduino/arduino-cli) project

- [ ] Submission of Projects (two people) (Yun, Chuck, Ke)
  - [ ] 📜Create GIX account on [Make Projects](https://makeprojects.com/)
    - [ ] 📜Category: Re-thinking the Future - How the pandemic and our response to it is teaching us to think differently. How, where and why we do things. Sustainability. Food. Well-being.
  - [ ] 📜Document process and add in images and other content for Make Projects
  - [ ] 📜Create GIX account on Instructables
  - [ ] 📜Document process and add in images and other content for Instructables

- [ ] Testing of project (Chuck, Nick or Paula, Ke)
  - [ ] 🧪Send out the NodeMCUs
  - [ ] 🧪Azure account
  - [ ] 🧪Deploy ARM template
  - [ ] 🧪Flash Arduino

- [ ] Presentation (one to four people) (TBD)
  - [ ] 👔Show up and talk about the project at Virtually Maker Faire

Maybe with more people and learning this project COULD take up to 40 hours, but this is still an estimate. It could take a lot less time or potentially more time. I've included multiple possibilities so this project can be successful even with as little as 20 hrs of time.

Commit message:

:pencil: Add contributing, link to buy

README.md, after:

## About
The NodeMCU is an open-source firmware and development kit which allows us to use a low-cost ESP8266 WiFi MCU to provide “the best platform for IOT application development at the lowest cost” [NodeMCU homepage](https://www.nodemcu.com/index_en.html).  

ESPHome is the software and firmware flasher we’ll be using; it’s a “system to control your ESP8266/ESP32 by simple yet powerful configuration files and control them remotely through Home Automation systems” [ESPHome homepage](https://esphome.io).

## Upon Completion
By completing this project you will have a porg or other hacked interactive 5v plush which can be invoked via web request over the Internet!

As of 5-16-20, you can [buy a Porg from Amazon for about $25, including tax](https://amzn.to/2WFhYfX)!

<div class="gif-container" style="text-align:center">
    <iframe src="https://giphy.com/embed/BpCYzidFkPgUzFV9cA" width="480" height="201" frameBorder="0" class="giphy-embed" allowFullScreen></iframe><p><a href="https://giphy.com/gifs/starwars-star-wars-the-last-jedi-BpCYzidFkPgUzFV9cA">via GIPHY</a></p>
</div>

# Minimum Project Scope

It's worth noting that all tasks will be directly beneficial to the GIX IoT Network project and not just the MakerFaire attendees and external makers!

## Emoji Guide
💯 = Must do to complete project  
💭 = Nice but can work without it  
⚠️ = Nice but could pose significant time suck and can work without it

## Time
* Arduino Development: 2 - 10 hrs depending on path taken
  * 💯Figuring out the issue for uploading code to NodeMCU by needing to change file (see the [repo](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-arduino))
    * 💯Documentation 
    * 💭Automation script Linux/Unix
      * ⚠️ Being able to do this on Windows in addition to Linux/Unix - developing a cross-platform Python script
* Azure Development: 2 - 10 hrs depending on path taken
    * 💯Documentation on process
    * 💭ARM template which is able to orchestrate creation of all resources 
      * Function App
      * Azure IoT Hub
      * IoT Device
      * 💭Key Vault + add documentation to add Key

* 💯Submission to MakerFaire: 2 hrs
  * 💯 writeup on make projects https://makeprojects.com/

* 💭Submisison to Instructbles Arduino contest 2 hrs:
  * https://www.instructables.com/contest/arduino2020/

* 💯 Shifts @ MakerFaire: 1 - 8 hrs
* 💭 Add this project to GIX's GitHub?: 1 hr

**ESTIMATED TOTAL (AVG time to complete everything): 17 hrs**

## Resources/Value Upon Completion
💯Arduino device code which can be configured for Wi-Fi in Arduino IDE and can be *easily* flashed by anyone (instructions or automated):
* 💯 Could be solely documentation
* ⚠️ Or it could use the Arduino IDE in conjunction with a python shell script (see the [Arduino CLI](https://github.com/arduino/arduino-cli) project).

💭Depoloyable ARM template on Azure which allows anyone to deploy the following resources:
* Function App
* Azure IoT Hub
* IoT Device

And let's not forget, another cool GIX project!
## TODO and Delegation
Each emoji represents one or two people:

☁️= Cloud Engineers (two people)  
🔎= Researcher (one person)  
🤖= Systems Engineers (two people)  
📜= Technical Writers (two people)  
👔= Presenters (one to four people)  
🧪= Testers (three people)

- [ ] ARM Template (three people) - Justin, Joey, Cody
  - [ ] 🔎Get high level resource templates for Function App, Azure IoT Hub, and IoT Device.
  - [ ] 🔎Learn Deployment Manager for ARM Templates  
  - [ ] ☁️[Learn Basic Structure of ARM template](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/overview)
  - [ ] ☁️Sign up for Azure
  - [ ] ☁️[Create a sample ARM template](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-resource-manager/templates/template-tutorial-create-first-template?tabs=azure-powershell)
  - [ ] ☁️[Azure IoT Hub ARM template sample](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/templates/?term=iothub)

- [ ] Arduino Flashing (two people) - CJ, Cody
  - [ ] 🤖Figure out uploading the code to Arduino on multiple platforms (Windows/Linux/Unix) and create documentation including entering Wi-Fi SSID + password and adding code config 
  - [ ] 🤖Write a python script to automate changing the files for *Linux/Unix*
  - [ ] 🤖EXTRA: Automate the process on Windows as well and use the [Arduino CLI](https://github.com/arduino/arduino-cli) project

- [ ] Submission of Projects (two people) (Yun, Chuck, Ke)
  - [ ] 📜Create GIX account on [Make Projects](https://makeprojects.com/)
    - [ ] 📜Category: Re-thinking the Future - How the pandemic and our response to it is teaching us to think differently. How, where and why we do things. Sustainability. Food. Well-being.
  - [ ] 📜Document process and add in images and other content for Make Projects
  - [ ] 📜Create GIX account on Instructables
  - [ ] 📜Document process and add in images and other content for Instructables

- [ ] Testing of project (Chuck, Nick or Paula, Ke)
  - [ ] 🧪Send out the NodeMCUs
  - [ ] 🧪Azure account
  - [ ] 🧪Deploy ARM template
  - [ ] 🧪Flash Arduino

- [ ] Presentation (one to four people) (TBD)
  - [ ] 👔Show up and talk about the project at Virtually Maker Faire

Maybe with more people and learning this project COULD take up to 40 hours, but this is still an estimate. It could take a lot less time or potentially more time. I've included multiple possibilities so this project can be successful even with as little as 20 hrs of time.

## Contributing
Just click the "fork" button, make your changes, and open a pull request! If you need any help please ask :).
